---
layout: post_template
title: "Pomodoro Technique"
date: 2025-05-25 12:00:00 -0500
---

The Pomodoro Technique is a time management method that can be applied to anything. (Read the wikipedia article ---> [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique#Tools))

I use it to improve consistency in Street Fighter 6 all the time. The idea is to break practice sessions into intervals, typically 5-10 minutes in length, separated by short breaks. Each interval is known as a pomodoro, from the Italian word for tomato, which is named after the tomato-shaped kitchen timer that creator of the technique used while he was a university student.

## 6 Steps of the Pomodoro Technique

A goal of the technique is to reduce the effect of internal and external interruptions of focus and flow. The original technique has 6 steps:

1. Decide on the task to be done.
2. Set the Pomodoro timer
3. Work on the task
4. End work when the timer rings and take a short break (typically 3–5 minutes)
5. Go back to Step 2 and repeat until you complete however many intervals you set up
6. After 3 intervals, take a long break (typically 20 to 30 minutes) instead of a short break. Once the long break is finished, return to step 2

In the beginning of Street Fighter 6, I was horrible at doing instant drive rush. I identified the weakness and decided it needed to be addressed (step 1 of the 6 steps.) I set a timer for 5 minutes.


## TLDR

Go to https://pomofocus.io/ and set a timer for **5 minutes**, set the short break for **3 minutes**, and the long break for **10 minutes**.

Add the task "Instant Drive Rush". Start the timer and neutral drive rush across the screen until you hit one side, then go the other direction.
